[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi I'm Lisa Garr
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
Once and for all would you
like to help solve the mystery
about the communication
between men and women?
Would you like to know
why women just can't relax
until certain things are
cleaned and out away?
Or would you like to know why
women multitask and men look
at us like we're
crazy [laughter]?
Or would you like to
know the top three things
that women are doing
that is absolutely wrong
with men [laughter]?
Well joining me today is Alison
Armstrong, thank God [laughter].
She has spent the last 20 years
educating men and women on how
to communicate and
master the relationships
between each other.
Welcome. Thank you for
being here [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: Oh I'm
really happy to be here.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh we're very
grateful too because you have
such clear communication skills
when it comes to this mystery
between men and women.
How did you get started on your
path of studying men and women?
>> Alison Armstrong: Well,
the very short version
is I was 30-years-old.
I'd been married and
divorced and a friend
of mine asked a man, "Why
is it that men are great
in the beginning and then
turn into sports watching,
beer belching, pizza eating,
couch slugs [laughter]?"
>> Lisa Garr: That's
what she said?
>> Alison Armstrong:
Yeah [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Nice.
[Laughter] Uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong: And there
were about 200 of us there.
We were all really
interested in the answer
to that and his name is Herb.
He answered the question.
He said, "Oh I see,
you're a frog farmer."
>> Lisa Garr: A frog farmer?
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
Weird answer to that question.
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: And he went
on to explain a frog farmer.
He said some women turn
frogs into princes.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: You my
dear turn princes into frogs.
>> Lisa Garr: Frogs.
Yeah, that wouldn't
make someone feel good.
>> Alison Armstrong: No, no
she actually stuck her tongue
out at him [laughter].
After he turned around she
stuck her tongue out at him.
She completely deflected
the remark.
I don't blame her.
It was pretty harsh.
But it bounced off
of her and hit me.
And I had this vision of
this big white farm house
with a wraparound porch and I
was standing out on the front
of the porch and there were rows
and rows of frogs [laughter]
with little human
heads [laughter].
And there was my
ex-husband [laughter]
and all my ex-boyfriends.
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And it struck me
that I was a frog farmer.
That I was a very
successful frog farmer.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh.
>> Alison Armstrong: A
very effective frog farmer.
I could -- I literally
could bring out the worst
in men in about 10 days.
>> Lisa Garr: Wow.
>> Alison Armstrong: But
the thing that shifted
in that moment is up till then I
was proud of it because what --
I thought men were con-artists.
And so I was going to drill in
and reveal the con before I got
sucked in again, to their charm.
>> Lisa Garr: And
be right about it.
Right?
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
I was going to find
out what jerks they were before
I fell in love with them.
And what I realized
in that moment is what
if I actually was
antagonizing them?
What if I was bringing
out the jerk?
That it wasn't so
close to the surface.
It wasn't who they
naturally were.
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh, it was...
>> Alison Armstrong: And
that's when I discovered it.
I started studying men.
That men are both princes and
frogs and we have a lot to do
with which one we get.
>> Lisa Garr: And so you
have an amazing amount
of compassion for men don't you.
>> Alison Armstrong: I do.
I went from -- I hated them.
>> Lisa Garr: Wow.
>> Alison Armstrong: I
mean just to be frank.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
A lot of women do.
A lot of women don't.
A lot of women are merely
frustrated with them,
or disappointed, or hurt.
I'd had a lot of that and I
hated them but didn't know it.
And I thought it would
take two or three months
to learn everything that was
worth knowing about them,
because I -- like a lot of women
I thought men were shallow.
And so I started out with
very little commitment.
I just wanted to know what
was I doing that was bringing
out the worst and maybe I could
learn a couple little tricks
that would bring out the best.
And it was very much from the
point of view of manipulation.
How could I -- if I could
understand them better I could
manipulate them better.
It was all adversarial.
All know thy enemy to get
a better result [laughter].
And now -- that was 1991.
Right? So now all these years
later I am still studying them.
I'm fascinated by them.
I'm surprised when -- even
this weekend I was surprised
by something I learned
new about men.
And I've become their
biggest fan.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
I adore them.
I'm in awe, absolute
awe of who men are.
I think men are God's
gift to women.
We just need to understand
how they work.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: And...
>> Lisa Garr: And they -- men
want more women like you saying,
"Yes [laughter] we are and
can somebody just appreciate
it [laughter]."
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah, we
actually have men who go --
who will only date the
graduates of our workshops.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh
[laughter] that makes sense.
>> Alison Armstrong: And this
is a requirement for them.
They're not going
to do anything else?
>> Lisa Garr: The
distinctions are so clear.
So what is the biggest complaint
that you hear from
women about men?
A lot of what you
were just saying.
Right?
>> Alison Armstrong: Well
there's several of them.
Women tend to see men as being
slow, or clueless, or stupid.
Like they don't catch
on to what's needed.
They don't act fast enough.
They complain that they have
to do everything while
he's sitting on the couch.
So there's problems -- they
complain about accountability.
>> Lisa Garr: Just doing
a single thing at a time?
>> Alison Armstrong: Well
they do one thing at a time.
Yes. For good reason.
But to a woman that seems
stupid and slow and inefficient.
>> Lisa Garr: Right, right.
Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
They complain
that men won't communicate.
That it's hard to get more
than one word out of them.
They -- you know, the term
emotionally unavailable.
So women have trouble
connecting with men
at a real heartfelt
level and they struggle
with that and they feel hurt.
Like they think that
men either can't connect
or don't want to
connect with them.
>> Lisa Garr: And
they're not able to.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: What about men?
What is the biggest complaint
you hear men saying about women?
>> Alison Armstrong:
Well thanks?
Yeah, represent that
side too [laughter].
So men complain that women
expect them to read their minds.
And that women -- well
the way they say it is
that you can't win.
They can't win with women.
>> Lisa Garr: Hmm-mm.
>> Alison Armstrong: If they
don't do something absolutely
perfectly they get
no points at all.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: So
the way women said it,
"How can I get 100
points or no points?
Why can't I just get 80 points?"
[Laughter] Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: So they
complain about how we focus
on what was wrong
instead of what was right.
>> Lisa Garr: Or we do over what
they did thinking it was fine
and we had to have it perfect.
Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
And their biggest
complaint really would boil
down to all the ways
that we emasculate them.
We don't let them be the man.
We try to be the man
in the relationship
while expecting them
to act like a girlfriend.
We want them to listen to
us like a girlfriend would
but then we want them to be
accountable and be a provider...
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah, uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...ambitious and all
that stuff like a man would.
>> Lisa Garr: Yup.
>> Alison Armstrong: So that's
one of their complaints.
That they -- that we try
to have them be everything.
>> Lisa Garr: Well
there's a video
that really [laughter] shows
a beautiful demonstration
on how men and women don't
communicate very well.
Take a look at this.
>> Alison Armstrong: After
years of studying men
and women I've come to realize
that a key to happy relationship
with the opposite
sex is to recognize
that we have two natures.
One I call human/animal,
the other human/spirit.
[Background Music] Human/spirit
in the elevated part of us.
It enables us to
be our best selves.
Human/animal is the
more primitive part.
The instinctive part that
lashes out often in response
to a primal fear of
scarcity, or competition.
When that happens I call it
an attack of human/animal.
It's a cavewoman
or caveman attack.
And what happens is there
is literally an eclipse
of human/spirit.
So human/spirit is
still there but it's
in the background overshadowed
by the animal reaction
that is driven by a perception
of a threat to one's survival.
So when men and women
perceive a threat
to their survival they react by
instinct and instinct is defined
as a primal, biological
urge compelling a response
that brings relief of tension.
Now I bring that up because
it's a good place to look.
Whenever you're experiencing
tension there's a very good
chance that you're reacting
instinctively from your caveman
or cavewoman and not
from human/spirit.
Now, if we're going to bring
out the best in ourselves
and each other we have
to understand what causes
an attack of human/animal.
And what does that is
any time that we perceive
that our survival
is in jeopardy.
So it could be a threat
to our physical safety.
It could be a threat to
property we're attached to.
It could be a threat to our
identity or our sense of self.
[Background Music] Now if we're
going to bring out the best
of each other we have to
understand that the masculine
and feminine aspects of our
natures experience survival
and therefore, safety and
security in different ways.
For the masculine
survival depends
on one's ability
to produce results.
So the masculine will
feel safe and secure
when they have the greatest
opportunity to produce results.
And that comes when they're
respected and trusted
by the people that they work,
with and the people
that they care for.
The feminine on the other hand
experiences safety and security
when she feels connected.
When she's getting the attention
and the interest she needs
from the people around her that
give her a nearly constant sense
of feeling connected and
therefore safe and secure.
Now one of the problems is that
men and women have instincts
that literally antagonize the
others caveman or cavewoman.
So for example, the way
that a man thinks --
which we call single focus
will cause him to pay attention
to one thing at a time.
So if he's watching television,
the woman in his
life may feel ignored
and she'll get this incredible
sense of tension in her body
and she'll try to do
things to connect with him,
connect with him,
which is a single focus person
he is going to experience it
as an interruption
and be annoyed by it
and cause a downward spiral.
On the other hand, woman have
an instinct that causes them
to want to be scrupulously
accurate in their details.
So if a man is telling a story
and he says something happened
on a Tuesday that
she thinks happened
on a Wednesday she'll interrupt
him and correct that story.
If this is in front of
other people it's going
to cause a problem.
Because if it's someone whose
respect and trust he needs
and she's now intimated
that he lies
or exaggerates that's
going to be a problem.
Now on the other hand
understanding these ways
that we antagonize each other's
instincts we can behave in a way
that instead brings out
the best in each other.
So for example, for a man to
overcome his natural respect
for privacy and instead
ask questions that show
that he's interested in her
he can even ask her what her
favorite questions
are to be asked.
And for a woman to recognize
the tension she feels
about the accuracy of
details and realize
that maybe this isn't
so important,
just let him tell the story.
You don't have to
correct him on that
and then he can maintain the
respect and trust that he needs.
By understanding the
differences in the way that men
and women think,
communicate, process information
and solve problems man and women
can learn to bring out the best
in each other instead of causing
an attack of human/animal.
I'm Alison Armstrong
for Pryor University.
>> Lisa Garr: It is
amazing we get along
at all [laughter] based on the
facts of what we just watched.
How do we do this?
I mean we take this complexity
that we are as females.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: And
we are complex.
>> Alison Armstrong: We are.
>> Lisa Garr: And we --
how do you relate without
feeling overbearing, dominating,
and feel that the messages
are being heard both ways?
Taking care of both ways.
I mean how do you take
a complex being and...
>> Alison Armstrong:
And a [laughter]...
>> Lisa Garr: ...and make it
feel like we're not overbearing?
Because it can overbearing
to be so complex.
>> Alison Armstrong: Absolutely.
Well I think the opposite of
that that you're referring
to men describe themselves
as simple.
And it's one of the things
I've heard a lot when they find
out I've been studying
them for 20 years...
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: ...or more.
Its 22 years now.
They'll look at me and go,
"Are you slow [laughter]?"
[Multiple speakers].
>> Alison Armstrong: But men
think for me to be studying them
for this long I must be slow.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: Because
they even think they're simple.
But the trouble is men are
not actually that simple.
They're very direct.
But what we're discovered
is like you have
to do nine things right
to successfully ask a man
for something you need.
Nine things you have
to do right.
>> Lisa Garr: We women do?
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
To get what you need from a man
there's nine things you have
to do right?
>> Lisa Garr: What [laughter]?
Really?
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: [Laughter]
Okay, we can handle this.
>> Alison Armstrong: Exactly.
But to me that's not simple.
If you have to do nine things
to get what you need,
that's not simple.
But to a man they're simple
because they're very direct.
The point that this
video is making --
which I love what they did
at [inaudible] U. Is that men
and women literally
have opposing instincts.
So this term opposite
sexes, opposite, opposing;
we have opposing instincts.
So what testosterone does to a
brain, and what estrogen does
to a brain causes opposing.
So for example, testosterone
makes a brain focus
which has it commit to a
result and the brain screens
out everything irrelevant
to the result.
>> Lisa Garr: Ah.
Keeps it focused.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Screens out everything.
It keeps it focused so that --
so vision is affected,
hearing is affected.
If it's not considered relevant
to the result it's not heard
and it may be seen like as
something to walk around
but it's not seen as actionable.
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong: So
you put a box in front
of the back doors hoping
your husband will pick it
up and take it out.
No, he just walks around it
because it's not processed
in the brain as relevant to what
he's committed to at the time.
The -- right?
>> Lisa Garr: Absolutely.
>> Alison Armstrong:
The estrogen soaked brain
on the other hand...
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
In the estrogen soaked
brain everything is
relevant [laughter].
There's no commitment,
there's just an awareness...
>> Lisa Garr: Of everything.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...of everything.
Everything's relevant,
everything needs to be done.
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
It needs to be done.
Which then also conflicts.
Right? So to a woman
everything is worth doing
because then it's
done [laughter]
and it stops calling out to her.
But to a man he calculates
what's worth doing.
What would be the benefit
of getting that done?
How much energy will
it take to do it?
>> Lisa Garr: No.
>> Alison Armstrong: And if
that equation doesn't work
out right it's not worth doing.
>> Lisa Garr: I did
that the other day.
I walked around the house and
I picked up the nail polish,
then a napkin, then I picked up
a few more things then I went
into the hallway and
distributed the things
in the bedroom they needed
to be distributed in.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: And I
didn't do the initial thing
that I planned on
doing [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: Because I --
like all these other
things were distracting me
until I could go back
to the kitchen going,
"What was I going to do?"
>> Alison Armstrong: You
were probably going to eat.
Right [laughter]?
That's a thing we forget to do.
We're as likely to
clean the refrigerator
as to take something out of
it and put it in our mouths.
>> Lisa Garr: [Laughter] Yes.
I did that Monday.
Okay, so wait you mentioned nine
things we need to do in order
to get a man to do something.
You have to address...
>> Alison Armstrong: I
can't just leave it there?
>> Lisa Garr: You cannot
just hang that one out there.
What [laughter]?
>> Alison Armstrong: All right.
Well let me see if
I can do this...
>> Lisa Garr: Just a few words.
>> Alison Armstrong: I
just had it [laughter].
Thank you.
Okay. First you have
to pay attention
to when you're telling him.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: That what
he's focused on is finding
out what you need from him.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Not driving.
Not eating.
Not getting ready for work.
>> Lisa Garr: Or bed.
>> Alison Armstrong: Not
just getting home from work.
Like all these things; he
can't be doing any of those.
He has to be focused on finding
out what you need and that's
when you have to tell
him what you need.
And he has to be focused on
finding out what you need
by not thinking he's in trouble.
So if you have an
attitude, like I need to talk
to you about something.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Now he's focused
on staying out of trouble.
>> Lisa Garr: So can
I ask you a question?
I need help with
something would work.
If it's in the right
time window.
>> Alison Armstrong: Can I ask
for your help with something?
Yes. That's an excellent
word to use.
Men want to be helpful.
Can I ask for your
help for something;
that doesn't give him
enough information.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: And women
specialize in vague [laughter].
So, we're like, you know,
trying to get this
long runway [laughter].
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
So a typical thing
that drives men crazy
is a woman says,
"Can I ask you a
quick question?"
>> Lisa Garr: Oh.
>> Alison Armstrong: And he's
like focused on something.
She's like, "Can I ask
you a quick question?"
And he'll nod his head and
she'll wait for him to look
at her because as women that's
how we know someone's paying
attention; we look.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: Or
they're still doing thing
and say, "I'm listening."
Right? But he's waiting for her
to ask the question before
he shifts his attention.
Because he needs to
know what is he going
to shift his attention to.
He's going to shift his focus.
He can't shift his focus
to a potential question.
He can only shift his
focus to a real question.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Yes [laughter].
So when you say, "Can I ask...
>> Lisa Garr: Can I ask...
>> Alison Armstrong:
...your help for something?"
Well of course you can ask
your help for something?
>> Lisa Garr: You
just did [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong:
Yeah, it's like,
"Can I ask your help
for something?"
That doesn't give him anything
to focus on [laughter].
Right? If you said,
"I need your help.
Can I tell you what it is and
find out when you can do it?"
That is concrete.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And then he'll --
then he'll let you know if --
when you can tell him what it is
and he'll tell you
when he can do it.
He'll say, "I can't
hear it right now."
Or, "When I'm done with
this I'll come find out."
And then you actually
have to wait
and tell him when he can hear.
The other thing you have to do
is describe what it looks like.
Because men and women assume
that they use language
the same way.
So for a man -- for example if a
man says, "I need your support."
To a woman support is either
do something [laughter]
because there's so much to do.
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Or leave me alone
so I can get it done myself.
Quit standing there
stomping your foot.
Or sit on the other side of the
counter and be pleasant company.
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh.
Right, okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: That
is important to a woman.
>> Lisa Garr: Those
are supports, yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Do something.
Leave me alone to do something,
or be pleasant company.
So when a man says, you
know, "I need more support."
We're like what do
you want me to do?
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Right, yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: To a
man support is appreciation.
>> Lisa Garr: Ah, thank you.
>> Alison Armstrong: Thank you.
You know, that really mattered,
that really made a difference,
this is what it provided for me.
You're so great, you're amazing.
That all makes him
feel supported.
Appreciation makes
him feel supported.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And the second form
of support is get
behind the plan.
We don't even usually know
there is a plan [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: It just happens.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
Get behind the plan.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh, okay.
So create a to-do list
or a plan [laughter]?
Isn't that a good look
on your face [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: What
are you talking about?
What are you talking about?
Yes, I've explained to men the
extent of a gather's planning.
You know, how we plan would be,
are you looking for
anything special?
What meadow do you
want to go to?
Right? And which end do
you want to start at?
>> Lisa Garr: So
the hunter gather...
>> Alison Armstrong: That's
how a hunter gather plans.
>> Alison Armstrong: Men,
their planning is huge
or the masculine, if a
woman's in the masculine.
It involves commitment, and
strategy, and resources,
and weaknesses, and
strengths, and then timelines,
and then collecting your
power and getting underway.
And then if it was really
cool we tell a story
about it afterwards.
>> Lisa Garr: That would
describe a lion hunt
in the caveman days.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes, yes.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
Hmm-mm, so it's got
a lot behind it.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: So it's got
a got a lot behind it.
Whereas if we go out
to the meadow we infuse
with the berries and
[laughter] we chose what we want
and there's no structure
around it.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: As long
as the kids are okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
We see all these
possibilities and we keep an eye
on the kids meanwhile because
that's what our diffuse
awareness does.
Make sure we're safe,
they're safe,
sees all the possibilities
at the same time.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
Yes. Well as wonderful as
these techniques are we need
to apply them of
course to our sex life
because that gets
very confusing.
>> Alison Armstrong: Okay.
>> Lisa Garr: Especially,
as you get into decades
and decades of a relationship.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: We're going to
take a look at a video just
to start us off [laughter]
on some of Alison's tips
around communication about sex.
Let's take a look.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Oh, this should be good.
>> Why do we have
to ask questions?
>> Alison Armstrong: Well
because men and women generally
like everything else we've
talked about before assume
that sex is the same
for their partner...
>> Spencer: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...as it is for them.
>> Right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And it's a huge mistake.
And the first question that...
>> Sure.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...we need to ask.
Yeah, the first question we need
to ask is what does
sex provide for you?
>> Hmm-mm.
You mean literally...
>> Spencer: Personally.
>> Alison Armstrong:
I mean literally...
>> ...ask that question.
>> Alison Armstrong: ...ask your
partner and tell your partner.
>> Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: What
-- and be very specific.
Like for example for instance
between in the morning
or at night, or drive
by, or smorgasbord.
>> Right, right.
>> Alison Armstrong: I mean
you have to be really specific.
If we kiss a lot then this
is what happens for me.
>> Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
This is what it provides.
If we, you know, dress
up in monkey suits [laughter]
this is what it provides.
>> Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: Whatever
the different situations
are [laughter].
>> Exactly yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: On
vacation versus at home.
Children at home,
children out of the house.
>> Spencer: Right, always
keep a clean monkey suit just
in case [laughter].
>> Yeah that's all -- there's
a lot of questions to ask.
>> Spencer: I'm sorry.
>> Alison Armstrong: Well
there's a lot to tell
because we assume that
it's the same now.
Like for example....
>> Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: ...Spencer
will assume that we'll assume
that sex is the same
for you now as it was
when you were 18 years old.
>> Spencer: No.
No.
>> Alison Armstrong: Right.
>> Spencer: Absolutely
different.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Not even close.
>> Spencer: Yeah,
completely different.
>> Alison Armstrong: Not
even close [laughter].
Men get much more emotional.
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: Spiritual.
>> Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: Connected.
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: It's deeply
important in a relationship...
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: ...for
reasons that aren't physical
and women believe as if it still
is and then they're out of sync.
>> Spencer: When I was very,
very young like you know
late teens early 20's I was
in a hurry.
And [laughter] as
time passed I --
my desires and my needs
changed and I slowed
down which is obviously a
great thing for my wife.
Because that's how she wanted
[laughter] things to transpire.
>> Alison Armstrong: Right.
>> Did you ask her?
>> Spencer: Yes I did.
>> [Inaudible] [laughter].
>> Spencer: Unlike most men
I've always like to talk
about intimate things.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> It's embarrassing or
sometimes awkward for couples
to talk about because...
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> ...they don't want to feel
like they're hurting
anybody's feelings
or that you're accusing them
that they're not
doing something right.
Or I mean, what's a gentle
way to broach the subject?
>> Alison Armstrong:
Well I would recommend
taking the long view.
If you're in a committed
relationship we're going
to be doing this for decades.
>> Spencer: A long time.
Yeah [laughter].
>> Oh my goodness [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong:
Maybe there's some
information we could exchange
so we could be better at it.
>> Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: And I've
learned this the hard way.
I've been married for 17 years
and most of what I teach now
that couples should exchange
in terms of information;
Greg and I didn't start talking
about until five years ago.
>> Spencer: Wow.
>> Wow.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Spencer: Let me
ask you this Alison.
if you sense that your
partner may be uncomfortable
with certain points
of conversation...
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Spencer: ...is
it okay just to ask
if it's okay to talk about it?
You say, "Are you comfortable
if I ask you some questions
about our intimate sexual life?"
>> Alison Armstrong:
You can do that.
You could also say, "How would
you best like to do this?"
>> Spencer: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: I mean
in the beginning I always called
Greg on the phone [laughter].
>> Spencer: [Laughter] Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: I
couldn't talk to him in person.
>> [Laughter] Oh, okay.
I thought you like had
sex over the phone.
>> Alison Armstrong:
No, I would call him
on the phone [laughter]
could we talk about sex.
>> Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: I
was too embarrassed...
>> Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...to talk in person.
>> Yes. I'm embarrassed
right now.
I feel like itchy or something.
I'm awkward.
>> Alison Armstrong:
It's very understandable.
>> Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
A lot of people are.
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> Okay. We just
touched on one question
and there are many more.
>> Spencer: Many more.
>> So more with Alison
Armstrong.
We're going to tell you about
this workshop that's free
that she is holding
tonight [applause].
So stay with us.
[Music] We're back with
Alison Armstrong creator
of Celebrating Men, Satisfying
Women [laughter] and we're going
to talk about satisfying
each other.
We've been talking about sex
and there's seven questions
we should ask ourselves
and our partner, before we
-- to improve our love life.
>> Spencer: Relationship.
>> Our relationships.
Okay. So we did one already
and that was what does
sex provide for you.
The next question;
your pumpkin hours.
What are you pumpkin hours?
>> Alison Armstrong:
Your pumpkin hours.
Pumpkin hours -- well this
goes back to Cinderella.
So pumpkin hours, the time
in which the coach turns
into a pumpkin and can't
give anybody a ride.
>> Spencer: Right
[laughter], right.
>> Write that down for me.
>> Spencer: And...
>> Alison Armstrong: Well
there is a time in the day...
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: For women
it will be a clock kind of time.
>> Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: Often
for men it's the what are
they focused on kind of time.
But for women usually there's
a time in the day usually
after which a request for
sex will create resentment
because she's going to
lose much needed sleep.
>> Oh.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Or too early in the day
where she's going to be upset
she's losing much needed sleep.
And the problem is that our
partners don't know what are
the times.
Like, I'm a yes up until 10:30.
>> Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: After
that it's just mean to ask.
>> You're a pumpkin.
Yeah.
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
You know, please,
please because it's
mean after then.
>> Okay.
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And it creates a
really weird dynamic...
>> Tension and...
>> Alison Armstrong:
...and tension...
>> Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: You know,
most women will keep
multitasking
until they're exhausted.
>> Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: And
so the time they come
to bed they're too
tired for that.
>> Spencer: Sure.
>> Right.
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
It's too late
and you got to catch
her earlier.
>> Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: And if you
tell your partner what are the
hours or the circumstances.
If my mother's in
town forget it.
>> Right.
>> Spencer: Right, right.
>> Alison Armstrong: You know?
>> Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: Whatever
your pumpkin hours are.
Whenever, you're not
available it's important
to actually tell them.
>> Right.
>> Spencer: Those hours will
differ from woman to woman.
Yeah.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: Absolutely.
Absolutely they will.
>> Okay. What about signals?
What are the signals?
>> Alison Armstrong: Oh boy.
Another one I learned
the hard way.
So in -- we have a course
called Celebrating Men and Sex,
and one of the questions we
always ask our panel of men is;
do you like for your
woman to initiate?
And they always say, "Yes."
>> Spencer: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: And all
the women are shaking their head
going this can't be true.
I've been turned down so often.
>> Exactly.
>> Alison Armstrong: How can
you possibly say you want me
to initiate?
>> Right.
>> Spencer: So we
missed the signal?
>> Alison Armstrong:
That's what it is.
>> Spencer: We missed
the signals.
Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: The
way that women initiate...
>> Spencer: [Whistling]
[laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
They had no idea they were
being invited to something.
>> Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
They had no idea.
So she thought she
was being turned
down when he didn't
know he was invited.
Right.
>> Oh [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: And
the opposite happens too.
I have a friend; her boyfriend
would kiss her on her neck
as a signal and she would
giggle and go, "Stop that."
>> Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: And then
get in the cab and drive off
and he would be [laughter]
upset.
But he didn't know he was
saying, "Take me with you".
>> Spencer: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Invite me home.
Right.
>> Right.
>> Spencer: Right, exactly.
>> Alison Armstrong: And
so it can go both ways
and then there's
also the problem
of if your partner doesn't know
what your signals are they can
think everything is a signal.
>> Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And so when --
like if her husband just wants
to snuggle they think
he's asking
for something she's too tired
to give and she'll freeze up.
>> Yeah.
>> Spencer: Yeah, yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: And
then he'll feel rejected...
>> Spencer: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: ...when he
really just wanted to hold her.
>> Right.
>> Spencer: Right, right.
>> Alison Armstrong: So you
have to be very specific.
If I say this or if
I touch you here...
>> Spencer: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...I'm asking.
>> Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: Everything
else I'm just being friendly.
>> Do [laughter] people do
code words like, you know,
like code words like...
>> Spencer: Some couples
probably do I bet.
Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Code words work.
>> Salami [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong:
As long -- yes.
>> It the first...
>> Spencer: Yeah
that might work.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Probably not that word but...
>> You know or -- you know
there's -- do people do that?
>> Alison Armstrong:
Well I knew a couple.
I knew a couple who says, "I'd
like to have dinner tonight."
>> Oh. And that means that.
>> Alison Armstrong:
That means that.
And she knows because
they talked
about this is his, signal.
>> Okay.
>> Spencer: Right.
And I want four courses.
Right?
>> Alison Armstrong: Exactly.
>> Spencer: Right [laughter].
Exactly and she's...
>> And I don't have time.
[Laughter] I can do two.
>> Alison Armstrong:
I can do two.
>> Spencer: There
we go [laughter].
Yeah, see.
>> Alison Armstrong: Exactly.
So often if you have a code
about it, it can be playful.
The embarrassment can go down.
>> Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: But
it's really important
because we miss each
other's signals all the time
and it starts this
cycle of rejection
that just kills the connection,
and the closeness, and the love.
And something -- I
mean you're a newlywed,
I should tell you this.
Something women don't know is
that the more emotionally
invested a man is
in the relationship the harder
it is for him to initiate
because rejection
is felt so keenly.
>> Right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
So he's waiting
for this giant signal
for -- on her part.
I want you.
Before he even indicates
and interest.
>> Okay.
>> Lisa Garr: It's
great because yeah,
we have some communication
needs especially if you are
into a marriage for the
long haul of a marriage.
And if you are -- you know sex
is different than to be in --
when you're teenagers,
when you're 20 something,
when you're courting
a relationship.
And then when you're 10, 15,
20 years into a relationship.
Right?
>> Alison Armstrong:
Yes, I'm 20 years in.
>> Lisa Garr: 20 years in.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: So how do
you look at that view
and even talk about it?
Because it happens.
It sneaks up on you.
15 years sneaks up on you.
10 years sneaks up on you.
How does -- how do you even
establish the communication
about sex in a long
term marriage?
>> Alison Armstrong: Well
like you're intimating,
presumably the commitment
of a marriage is you know
till death do us part.
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Presumably.
>> Alison Armstrong: And
presumably there's a commitment
that now it's just us.
This is it for the
rest of our lives.
We're out only partners.
And both men and
women need variety.
They need variety, they need
excitement, they need a sense
of aliveness, engagement...
>> Lisa Garr: Adventure.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...newness, adventure.
>> Lisa Garr: Like you
said [inaudible]...
>> Alison Armstrong: The
monkey suits [laughter].
Right? They -- so
we need to have fun.
Sex is something that men
think is extraordinarily fun.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: Women can
have fun if they stop worrying
about do I need to
suck in my stomach?
[Laughter] You know?
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And so there's --
I mean you have to understand.
I'm saying this from someone
who could not talk to my husband
in person about sex for the
first two years of our marriage.
I had to call him on the
phone to talk to him.
I was two embarrassed.
>> Lisa Garr: Call
him on the phone?
>> Alison Armstrong: I had
to call him on the phone
to talk to him about sex.
I was too embarrassed.
>> Lisa Garr: [Laughter]
Where was he?
At work?
>> Alison Armstrong:
Yeah [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Great.
>> Alison Armstrong: I would
call him on the phone at work.
Yes. That's the best I could do
and it's better than nothing.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: Writing
letters is better than nothing.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
But if you [laughter] --
you just have to -- whatever
shyness you have you just have
to get over it, and know
the only thing that's going
to keep this alive
for half a century is
if we keep communicating
and as it says in the video,
one of the first things
to communicate is
what does sex provide.
Because that's another
way that men
and women do -- it
doesn't connect.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: And women
tend to have been imprinted
by teenage men who were pawing
them, being very demanding,
manipulative, desperate
[laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Yes, yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Their levels
of testosterone make them
very desperate for sex.
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong: And
so we get imprinted by that
and we don't know how to come
at it from being a partner.
We're sort of defensive
to begin with.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
It becomes confusing.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: And
then we don't understand
that the more emotionally
involved a man is with a woman,
the more it hurts
him to be rejected.
So the more a man cares for
a woman the harder it's going
to be for him to ask for sex.
>> Lisa Garr: When you
see those differences,
those innate differences
between what men need
and what women need
what are they?
I mean what are the innate --
what does a man need
in terms of sex?
What does a woman
need in terms of sex?
>> Alison Armstrong: Well...
>> Lisa Garr: Traditionally.
>> Alison Armstrong: ...that's
a really long conversation.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
But I'm going to go
for the simplest thing.
It has to do with connection.
>> Lisa Garr: For women?
>> Alison Armstrong: Well
it actually has to do
with connection for men too.
>> Lisa Garr: Cool.
>> Alison Armstrong: But the
problem [laughter] is women need
to feel connected in order
to be available for sex.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Men need to have sex...
>> Lisa Garr: In order to be...
>> Alison Armstrong: ...in
order to be connected.
>> Lisa Garr: Got it.
>> Alison Armstrong: So
that they're available
for everything else.
>> Lisa Garr: I can
feel a lot of men
and women nodding
their heads right now.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
So unfortunately a woman
not knowing that her need
for connection is
specific to her will expect
that he already knows he
needs to feel connected.
It's rude of him to just start
pawing at her or just, you know,
men spring sex on us [laughter].
Just out of nowhere.
>> Lisa Garr: Because
that's the way it is.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Because they're men.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Exactly, they're ready.
Let's go. And they don't
know that we need this sense
of connection and
then we're available.
So since we don't know
that they're trying
to have sex to get connected...
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong: Like that's
literally how they connect
with us.
We think it's their job to get
us connected before we have sex.
We blame them for it.
We're mad at them like
they're misbehaving.
They're being rude,
they're being inconsiderate.
You know, because ever woman
knows we should make sure
that we're all...
>> Lisa Garr: That happens.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...tuned in and...
>> Lisa Garr: Touchy
feely [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
And then we can be intimate.
>> Lisa Garr: But
so that happens --
if that conflict happens
and then a woman says no
or turns her back or rejects
that's got to be the worst.
>> Alison Armstrong: Crushing
is the word that they use.
>> Lisa Garr: Crushing.
>> Alison Armstrong: Crushing.
And it imprints them
for a very long time.
>> Lisa Garr: And if it happens
over and over its damaging.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Oh worse than damaging.
[ Pause ]
If he isn't healed from
that he will never be able
to participate in that
relationship the way he
could have.
With his whole open heart and
everything he has to give.
>> Lisa Garr: How do
you heal from that?
Conversation?
>> Alison Armstrong:
Well it starts with --
and maybe some women
are doing it now --
recognizing how vulnerable
our husbands are
when they ask for sex.
And so that no, that knee jerk
no, or don't be ridiculous no,
would be the equivalent of like
if you were sharing this
deep feeling that you had
and he said, "Why are
you talking about that?"
Or, "That's stupid."
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong: Or,
"Why would I want
to know about that?"
Right? You would be devastated.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And what heals is
when the other person realizes
that what they did was
devastating and apologizes.
That's a really good start.
>> Lisa Garr: And on top of that
you have great, great techniques
on how to mend that divide
[laughter] between how men
and women need sex
in a different way.
So first we have to
talk about focus.
>> Alison Armstrong: Okay.
>> Lisa Garr: Focus
is huge [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: For women.
Because we will do everything
including clean the house
and pick up all the things
that are screaming at us...
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: ...like I
did with the nail polish
and the napkin and the socks.
They create -- they
have voices right.
>> Alison Armstrong: They do.
>> Lisa Garr: [Laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: They --
the voices are not in our head.
The pillow has a voice.
The pillow's saying,
"I'm crooked."
The nail polish is saying,
"Why'd you leave me here?"
[Laughter] I don't belong here.
I don't belong here.
I don't belong here [laughter].
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: It's so true.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Everything dirty is like,
"Oh, I'm so gross.
I can't believe that you
left me here so gross.
Why didn't you take care of me."
Or to me I have screaming
crumbs at my house.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh.
>> Alison Armstrong: [Laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: I have
screaming shoes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Screaming shoes.
>> Lisa Garr: Hmm-mm.
>> Alison Armstrong: Okay.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: You
have screaming shoes,
I have screaming crumbs.
[Multiple speakers].
>> Lisa Garr: They
actually do [laughter].
They say things.
But it is very challenging
for a woman to focus
when those things are around the
house or the kitchen at night.
Is it true?
Is it just me?
Is...
>> Alison Armstrong:
It's anytime.
>> Lisa Garr: Anytime.
Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: Women
-- okay, not just women.
I -- it's related to estrogen.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
So I'm post-menopausal
so I have less estrogen
so I'm getting focused.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: And it's
a whole new set of problems
and I have a whole new
kind of compassion for men.
But for most women, for most
of our lives, that awareness
that the estrogen creates;
it has that stuff talk
to us all the time.
So now this is talking to me.
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong: It has
it talk to us all the time
and unfortunately since we don't
know that when we need to focus,
like when we need to
work on something.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: Our
impulse is to clean the area.
Put everything away, take
all the distractions away.
And since we don't know
that that's in order
to allow our brain to focus we
think we're procrastinating.
So the whole time we're
cleaning so we can focus,
we're mad at ourselves for
not just getting to work.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
Oh yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
So we beat ourselves
up while we're doing what we
need to do to allow our brain
to pay attention to something.
>> Lisa Garr: You have
a really great piece
about this [laughter].
I want you to just take a look.
Alison's really a stand-up
comic in my opinion [laughter].
Let's take a look at
this video [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong:
All right guys.
This is going to be
a stretch for you
because the easiest
thing to do will be
to think this is a version
of how you think [laughter].
It's not [laughter].
Okay? Diffuse means to
pour in every direction.
As a man you are what
we call single focused.
Yes. You're single
focused [laughter].
You pay attention to
one result at a time.
Single focus.
We have diffuse awareness.
Most men will interpret that,
"Oh, so you pay attention
to three or four
things at a time?"
No [laughter]!
"Oh, you focus on two or
three things at a time."
No [laughter]!
It means we don't focus.
[ Laughter and Applause ]
We don't focus.
But it doesn't mean we
can't focus because we can.
For short period of
time and it's like --
you know how much energy it
takes to get the shuttle free
from the force of
gravity [laughter]?
Right? You know, all the fuels
burned up getting it free
from the force of gravity?
That's what it takes for
us to focus [laughter].
You know, I'll sit down to write
something which requires focus.
Right? And I'll -- oh but
look at this -- focus.
Oh but this is --
focus [laughter].
Focus Alison, focus!
Focus [laughter], focus!
>> Lisa Garr: [Laughter].
It's so true.
How do you -- I mean do
you get yourself to focus
by telling yourself focus?
You're conscious of it?
>> Alison Armstrong:
I'll do that
or I've gotten even smarter.
Which this -- the next
clip I know you're going
to show will talk about.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh yeah.
So go ahead.
>> Alison Armstrong: But I
actually make appointments
with other people to focus.
>> Lisa Garr: What do you mean?
>> Alison Armstrong: [Laughter]
Because the feminine
-- right, connection.
Connection.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Will have us focus.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Being connected.
So I'll make an appointment
and one of my coworkers will be
on the other end of the phone.
They mute their side, they
work on whatever they work on.
I've got my headset
on so I am tethered.
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Yes, yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: And
I'll write an article.
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Brilliant.
>> Alison Armstrong:
I'll write an article.
I'll edit something.
I'll focus because
they're holding me there.
That's what keeps me
from wandering off...
>> Lisa Garr: To
check the email,
whatever else would come up.
>> Alison Armstrong: Exactly.
>> Lisa Garr: Absolutely.
Wow. All right [laughter].
So when it comes to -- this is
going to be such a key piece
for you men right now -- when
it comes to getting a woman
to focus on your needs before
bed take a look at this video.
It's beautiful.
>> Alison Armstrong: [Laughter]
As a woman doing eight
to 10 things at the
same time is easy.
It's doing one thing
that's almost impossible.
It's really, really, really,
really hard for us
to just do one thing.
And a very common place for
this to hurt other people,
especially to hurt men
is when you're talking.
And because you're single
focused it's natural
to assume I'm talking,
therefore [laughter] you listen.
But it doesn't work that way.
For one reason because as
men you have a particular
relationship to your needs that
we call critical and urgent.
So when you need to talk
you just start talking.
Doesn't matter what we're doing.
You just start talking.
And you expect us to listen.
And we've got this environment
screaming for our attention
and you expect us to listen.
And then we'll try
to listen [laughter]
but then something will happen.
And like a child will come
up and ask for something
or they water's boiling
over on the stove,
or we suddenly remember, "Oh
shoot I didn't get out the blank
from the refrigerator."
You know, something in
our awareness will come up
and it seems to men that a woman
is choosing to do that thing,
instead of listening to him.
Like she choose it.
Like, oh, the water boiling
over is way more important
than what Eli's got
to say [laughter].
And it seems that way and
then your feelings get hurt
and you get upset
and you shut down.
And then we don't know
why you're shut down.
But we can tell you're
shut down and we get tense.
And then the tension has us
start doing all these behaviors
to try to please you, which
I'll explain in a little while.
And it just evolves from there.
It gets worse, and worse,
and worse, and worse.
What would really help --
there's two things
that would really help.
One is recognizing
that we didn't choose
to not listen to you.
We really didn't.
We didn't decide that
something was more important
than listening to you.
So it really -- it's
not personal [laughter].
We just got pulled.
The other thing that can
really help is set us up.
The way that it works for Greg
and I it's like a code word.
He says, "Can I tell
you something?"
Now I know when he says,
"Can I tell you something?"
This is important to him.
It's his way of asking for
my undivided attention.
Or the closest thing
to my undivided attention
[laughter] that I can give him.
Which the way that it works is
listening, listening, listening,
oh listen [noises]
listen, listen.
Listen he's talking.
Listen [laughter].
And often what I'll do is
I'll take him to the quietest;
translation, cleanest, neatest,
part of my house [laughter].
I'll take him there
to listen to him
because there's the fewest
things talking to me.
Or if it's on the phone I'll go
to the quietest part of my house
and I'll often close my eyes.
Just so -- like, "Okay honey.
What did you want to
tell me [laughter]?"
A couple days after this course
when Greg did it
the first time he --
we were talking about
diffuse awareness and he said,
"It's different during sex.
Right [laughter]?"
And the look on his face
was so hopeful [laughter]
that it was -- it was
one of those moments
in our relationship when
I was really tempted
to lie [laughter].
Just to make him feel better.
You know? But we don't do
that in our relationship
and so I [laughter], "No honey.
I'm sorry [laughter]
it's not different."
"The voices don't
go away [laughter]?"
"No they don't [laughter]."
But it helped me
to see something
about women that's
really important
and that is while
the other voices,
while the other things don't
go away there is something
that you can do with a
woman that has you be by far
and away the loudest thing
happening in the environment.
The loudest.
Like whoa [laughter].
You know like [laughter].
Leslie can you come up
for a second [laughter]?
I'm going to demonstrate
what you can do.
>> Leslie: Oh.
>> Alison Armstrong: Hi.
>> Leslie: Hi.
[ Laughter ]
>> Alison Armstrong:
Touch her [laughter].
Just touch her.
Touch is the loudest
thing in our environment.
It grounds us.
It kind of like has
us come here.
So if you've ever been to
a really great masseuse
who once they put their hands
on you they never let go,
they never -- like if they're
getting lotion they have one
hand on your back and
they're getting it with --
they never ever let go.
That's how you want
to be with a woman.
Once you get ahold
of her don't let go.
If you're making love to her,
never not be touching her.
That's how you keep
her focused there.
Or the closest thing she
has to it [laughter].
That's how you keep
her attention.
Never not be touching her.
And if you want to -- see one
of the things that happens
to a woman is we're
-- we get tired.
Right? But we're not like a man.
When you're tired you
fall asleep [laughter].
Wherever you are [laughter].
As a woman we're tired but our
environment is still talking
and saying how we -- this needs
to be and this needs to be done,
this needs to be done,
and this needs to be done.
And this needs to be done,
One of the biggest complaints
in couples is you'll want
to make love and she
never comes to bed.
And then by the time
she does come
to bed she's exhausted
[laughter].
I mean one of the
most nightmares
in a woman's life
is crawling into bed
and you're awake [laughter].
Because there's only one reason
you're still awake [laughter].
And it's not that we don't
want to make love with you.
It's not that we wouldn't have
loved to make love with you.
You just should've invited me a
couple of hours ago [laughter].
When I still had something left.
Because all the multi-tasking
took it out of me.
So I mean one of the biggest
things that could happen
for couples love lives is
you got to invite her to bed.
You got to become the loudest
thing in the environment.
And you'll think oh she's too
busy, she's not interested.
You're always a better
offer [laughter].
Always, always a better offer.
So you got to go
[inaudible], Honey.
>> Leslie: Hmm-mm.
>> Alison Armstrong: I'd really
like to make love to you now.
>> Leslie: Oh [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong:
Come with me [laughter].
Would you like to
brush your teeth?
>> Leslie: Yes [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong:
Okay [laughter].
Don't let go [laughter].
Anything else you'd
like to do first?
>> Leslie: No.
>> Alison Armstrong: Can I run
a shower for you or anything?
Will help you feel
fresh and lovely?
>> Leslie: No [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong:
You're ready now?
>> Leslie: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: Okay.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay so now
we've both learned a little bit
about how to gently ease into
that place where no happens
and where everybody's
needs get met.
And, you know, for the interim.
Now what about -- gosh, so many
questions for you [laughter].
When my husband's talking to
me and he's telling me a story
about something that happened.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: I constantly am
either interrupting him during
the story or I do the dishes,
or I'll finish his sentence
or the story for him, or I'll...
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: Why -- do other
women -- is this common?
>> Alison Armstrong:
It's very common.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
It drives men crazy.
>> Lisa Garr: It does?
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: It
drives them nuts?
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: So what is that?
Why can't we just not sit
and listen to the story?
>> Alison Armstrong: Well,
there's several things going on.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: Okay?
And listening to a story is
different than waiting for them
to answer a question,
which is a different kind
of excruciating [laughter].
Okay? You want me
to talk about both?
>> Lisa Garr: God,
yeah [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: Okay.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
So first of all it's --
with this diffuse
awareness pulling us
to do all these things.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
There's no sense of priority.
There's no level
of importance's.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: And
this is very hard for men
because they're constantly
prioritizing.
Not only is that worth
doing or not worth doing,
but if it is worth doing is
this the right time to do it?
>> Lisa Garr: They're
asking that of us
as we're doing all these things?
>> Alison Armstrong:
They do it all...
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: Well they
ask it of themselves constantly.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh, okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: And
they'll try to ask it of us
when we're overwhelmed.
They'll be like, "Honey just
do one thing at a time."
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And we'll be like,
then do you know how
far behind I'll be
if I do one thing at a time?
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: So
men are always weighing;
they're weighing the energy
expenditure against the benefit
and is this the right
time given everything else
that is happening.
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And since they do
that they think we're
doing that.
And this has horrible
consequences
because they'll be
telling us something
and we'll, you know, wander off.
We'll -- something will catch
our eye that's out of place.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: And we'll
go pick it up and put it away,
or a child will come in
and ask us for something
and we'll respond
to that request.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes and he
said, "I was talking to you."
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
And he thinks that in
that moment we consciously made
the decision putting this away
is more important than
to listening to him.
Taking care of this
child is more important
than listening to him.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Getting this
out of the refrigerator
[laughter]...
>> Lisa Garr: Your friend.
>> Alison Armstrong: My friend
[laughter], there's my friend --
is more important
than listening to him.
They think we chose that
and that's what has him feel
disrespected, dishonored.
You don't care about me.
That -- it can be crushing.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: Anywhere
from irritating to
crushing to men.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: Because
they think we consciously chose
the way they would
have consciously chose.
>> Lisa Garr: Something
else instead of them.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
So that's why we encourage to
hold a woman's hold attention,
literally hold her hand.
Because that touch will
make you the loudest thing
in her environment.
So that's a place
that you start.
You know, "Honey can
I tell you something.
I want to tell you something.
Is there anything you need
to put away so you can listen
to what I have to tell you?"
>> Lisa Garr: Oh,
you're kidding me right?
>> Alison Armstrong:
I'm not kidding.
He should definitely
do this [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Well what
if I'm making dinner
and he just wants
to tell me a story.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Then you should say,
"Honey if you really
want me to...
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...this is not a good time."
>> Lisa Garr: Oh.
Oh my gosh [laughter].
You can say that.
I can huh?
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
"If you really want me to
listen this is not a good time."
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
[Multiple speakers].
>> Alison Armstrong: Or do
you just want me to kind
of listen while I'm
cooking dinner?
>> Lisa Garr: Right or
else dinner will burn.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: And if you're okay
with burnt dinner then I'll sit.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: If not then I'll
finish dinner and then we'll sit
and talk about it during dinner.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Or after dinner.
But can you see how that
would be a partnership?
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: He
gets to choose, do you know,
how important is this.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: Is it
more important to say it now?
Is it more important
than dinner?
Because he is naturally
going to prioritize.
Right [laughter]?
But I asked one -- I asked one
to Greg, [laughter] I was like,
"Okay, so when you start
talking you expect me
to start listening."
>> Lisa Garr: Just to
stop everything I'm doing.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yeah.
And he was so funny.
He said, "Yeah.
I'm talking [laughter]."
>> Lisa Garr: But
how is that possible?
>> Alison Armstrong:
[Laughter] It's not possible.
>> Lisa Garr: It's not.
>> Alison Armstrong: But
from his point of view...
>> Lisa Garr: It is.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...it's time to talk.
Right? So he has to learn
partnership, as well.
Men have to learn how
to partner with us
in when would be a good
time to talk to you
about something important.
When can I have your attention?
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: Is there
anything in the environment
that you need to take care of
so I can have your attention?
Right? So that would
be the first step.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: Then the
second thing that you have
to know is if he's telling you a
story there's a very good chance
he's told you this story before.
>> Lisa Garr: Why is that?
Okay?
>> Alison Armstrong:
[Laughter] I know.
This offends every female
sensibility [laughter].
And we need the men to know why.
Okay?
>> Lisa Garr: Okay?
>> Alison Armstrong: Okay.
Because when a woman conveys
information she does that only
with her tribe, with
her team members.
Right? Because otherwise
she's not going
to tell people where
he berries are.
Right?
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
She's got to trust it.
Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: She
conveys the information
to the person she trusts.
She expects that they have
the same kind of database
that she does and that they're
storing that information
and they'll remember it.
That they've got the kind
of memory that she does.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And they're going
to be meticulously accurate
because that's how you get back
to the berries at
the right time.
>> Lisa Garr: The right time.
>> Alison Armstrong: Maybe
another time we'll get to talk
about that in even more detail.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: So
there's a commitment to accuracy
and there's a commitment
to remembering who we told.
And an assumption that
they'll remember it.
So much so that a
woman will apologize
if she can't remember
if she told someone.
She'll say, "Forgive me if
I've told you this already.
Did I already tell
you about that?"
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
Right, right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
She'll check and see
because she doesn't want
to insult the other person.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Insult their memory.
>> Lisa Garr: Or they'll say,
"I know I already told you
this before but I just want
to tell you this is the
right time [laughter]."
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
We'll acknowledge that
we've told them before.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: Right?
So when a man is telling us a
story we think that the purpose
of telling us that
story is to convey
to us the facts within
the story.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: That's
what we think he's doing
because that's -- would have
been the purpose of our story.
We don't know that him telling
a story again and again,
is what a man does
to refuel himself.
Yeah, look on your face.
>> Lisa Garr: I am
so confused by that.
>> Alison Armstrong:
It's perfect.
Yes. Men empower themselves.
They give themselves juice
by telling the stories
of the best adventures,
of the most challenging
problems they've solved.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh.
>> Alison Armstrong: Of the
biggest hunts, of when they took
down the wooly mammoth.
>> Lisa Garr: The
obstacles that were overcome.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes, yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
So as they're reliving the story
they're empowering themselves,
they're juicing themselves up
for the next accomplishment
so it's a very important
part of the process.
>> Lisa Garr: Wow.
>> Alison Armstrong: They may
also be establishing status
for themselves amongst...
[Multiple speakers].
>> Alison Armstrong:
Respect they need.
>> Lisa Garr: I did
this so you can too.
>> Alison Armstrong: Well
then there's a lesson;
they may be encouraging someone
or they may be teaching
a method.
>> Lisa Garr: Teaching moment.
>> Alison Armstrong: Giving
lessons to the younger hunts...
>> Lisa Garr: Sure.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...hunters and warriors.
Right? So there's these
different purposes going on,
but the most important
one to know
about is that he's refueling.
He's empowering himself and
so to him the point is not
that he's told you before.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh, that will
change the way I hear stories
[laughter] forever.
It will.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes and
if you want to be amazing;
this is what I do with Greg.
Okay. So if he's going
around like this.
Right? He's like
all like, bummed...
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...discouraged, not himself.
Right? I have been known to
say to him, "How old were you
when your dad asked you
about the paper route?"
>> Lisa Garr: Wow.
>> Alison Armstrong: And I'll
-- and I know how old he was.
He's told me this story I can't
even tell you how many times
since I met him 21 years ago.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay, but
that isn't placating?
>> Alison Armstrong:
No, no, no, no.
That's play grounding.
That's -- I mean I'll ask
him, "So how old were you?"
And since he doesn't
think it's a reflection
of me having a faulty
memory that I don't remember
that he doesn't go, "I've told
you a thousand times I was 13."
Right? He doesn't say that.
Right? He just launches
into the story and he starts
at the very beginning about
where he was and his father came
in and said, "How'd you
like to earn $30 a month?"
[Laughter] And he
tells this story
which is key to his identity.
It's key to his sense
of himself as someone
who earns money and saves money.
Spends it very frugally...
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: Bought one
candy bar and one metal car.
Saved the rest and
that's how he had a $1,000
by the time he was [laughter]...
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, we have a little
bit of an opposite thing
with my husband and I.
Is that I think I asked him if
he likes crunch peanut butter
or creamy peanut butter
at least 20 times.
But I...
>> Alison Armstrong:
You can't remember.
>> Lisa Garr: ...I can't
remember because probably
when he would answer me I
would be completely diffused
and not record the answer.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: So we get to
the market the next going,
"Do you like crunchy
or creamy [laughter]?"
It's now a running joke
in our relationship.
>> Alison Armstrong:
That's really funny.
>> Lisa Garr: [Laughter]
But I don't know
if I'm the only person
that happens to.
>> Alison Armstrong:
You might have an issue
with peanut butter.
>> Lisa Garr: [Laughter]
It's now a fun joke though.
>> Alison Armstrong:
[Inaudible] issue
with peanut butter [laughter].
Yeah, there are things that
our memories just won't hold
for one reason or another.
Or especially, you know,
we both had children.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
That wipes out who parts
of the brain [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: It does.
Really? It really does?
>> Alison Armstrong:
Oh it really does.
>> Lisa Garr: It really does.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Yeah, just shew.
And then you get into
peri-menopause and the --
enter the delete button.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong: Which just
[noises] [laughter] takes things
right out of your brain.
>> Lisa Garr: It's just gone.
>> Alison Armstrong:
It's just gone.
You don't even remember the
conversation [laughter].
It's terrifying.
>> Lisa Garr: So that's normal?
>> Alison Armstrong: It's a
function of estrogen levels.
Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
It's normal.
>> Lisa Garr: So when the
estrogen starts to exit
so do a lot of memories?
>> Alison Armstrong: Oh my gosh.
Memories and especially --
we're a magnet for
remembering commitments,
and then we can't
remember them anymore
and that's really frightening.
Or another thing that goes with
the estrogen is the compulsion
to take care of other
people disappears.
And things that we used to love
to do, and want to be compelled
to do, now are like, I don't
want to do that [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
Right, right.
Yeah, I don't need that anymore.
As the kids go off to college,
which you're in that phase now,
you start to lengthen the
leash of caring for the world.
Is that what happens?
>> Alison Armstrong: Well it --
Louann Brizendine who
wrote  The Female Brain ;
one of my favorite people.
>> Lisa Garr: The
Neuroscientist.
She's brilliant.
>> Alison Armstrong:
People should just read it.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong:
She actually told me
about the delete button
which like I was like,
ah thank you Louann.
And but in her book  The Female
Brain  she talk about the care
and tend part of the
brain turning off.
And...
>> Lisa Garr: The care and what?
>> Alison Armstrong: It's
called care and tend.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh okay.
>> Alison Armstrong:
And it's a part --
the part of the brain that
compels a woman to care
for others and tend
to their needs.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: And that
as the estrogen falls
that part turns off.
Now the cool thing is, it can
be reactivated and activated
for the first time by the
pheromones that babies emit.
>> Lisa Garr: Ah, so that's why
grandchildren are so fabulous.
I've heard that.
Grandchildren are the best.
>> Alison Armstrong: Well
they can be but what I love
because I love choice; is
you can decide what kind
of grandmother you want to be.
So if you want to
be a, you know,
birthday cards only grandmother
do not sniff the fumes.
Stay away [laughter].
If you want to be a
drop them off anytime.
You know? Start sniffing
the fumes.
And after we learned this I
purposely [laughter] started
holding babies and going
[sniffing] Greg needs me
to cook.
Greg needs me to
cook [laughter].
Come on, come on
wake up, up there.
Greg needs me to
cook [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: That's great.
That is great.
I wonder if the same thing
would work with just a bottle
of baby powder [laughter].
[Multiple speakers].
>> Lisa Garr: Why are you
sniffing the baby powder honey?
>> Alison Armstrong: I don't
think it has the pheromones.
I'm sorry.
>> Lisa Garr: Darn it.
Wouldn't that be
great [laughter]?
>> Alison Armstrong: I love it.
>> Lisa Garr: So do these
conversations also --
I'm sorry, did you finish that?
>> Alison Armstrong:
I didn't finish.
Do you want to hear the rest?
>> Lisa Garr: Okay.
Go, go. Yes, yes, yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: Okay.
So we did the story thing.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: Right?
So don't tell his
story for him to prove
that you got the facts
straight [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Listen.
Don't say, "Hello,
I'm your wife.
You don't remember
telling me this story?
I'm that not memorable."
>> Alison Armstrong: No.
>> Lisa Garr: Know that it's
serving a greater purpose then.
>> Alison Armstrong: Exactly.
A greater purpose.
He's probably going to go
hunt something down for you.
>> Lisa Garr: Something
will happen.
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
Then the other thing which
is how hard it is to wait
for them to answer a question.
So a woman will ask a man
a question [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: I think I'm
the only one this happens to.
>> Alison Armstrong: Oh no.
>> Lisa Garr: This
is so refreshing.
>> Alison Armstrong: It's not.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
Tell me.
>> Alison Armstrong:
It's not you.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: So again --
and this is one of the biggest
mistakes that women make --
is we think we're talking...
>> Lisa Garr: To another woman.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...to someone like us.
Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
A kind of woman.
>> Lisa Garr: Right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
A hairy woman,
a muscly woman, a
smelly woman...
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...that we all know.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
We're not and so we tend
to answer questions right
off the top of our heads.
Do you know -- what do
you think about Spain?
Hot [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Right, right.
>> Alison Armstrong: Right.
Colorful. [Laughter] Like we
just pop things off the top
of our head.
A man when you ask him
a question he assumes
that you're committed to
the question, that you care
about the answer,
and so he's going
to look really what does
he think about that.
So what do I think about Spain?
Do you know?
And we call it going
to the well.
>> Lisa Garr: Oh, okay.
>> Alison Armstrong: So he'll go
to the well, you know and reach
down deep and pull up
his thoughts of that.
>> Lisa Garr: The
well of memories.
>> Alison Armstrong: The well of
memories, the well of knowledge,
information, values,
past experiences.
The well that he is
from a lifetime...
>> Lisa Garr: Uh-huh.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...of everything he is.
And he's going to the
well to pull this up,
and we're already
wandering off [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Oh.
>> Alison Armstrong: We're --
I mean since he doesn't answer
right away, we either wander off
or forget we asked a question.
Or...
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: ...we'll
think he didn't understand the
question and we'll
rephrase it not realizing
that the rephrasing is a
totally different question.
>> Lisa Garr: So we ask
another question completely.
Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong:
Well like the difference
between where do you
want to go on vacation
and where should
we go on vacation.
Those questions are not
remotely close to each other
but to a woman they are.
To a man they're not.
Where do you want is
purely what do I want.
Where do we -- where should we;
well that involves
currencies, safety...
>> Lisa Garr: Right, right.
>> Alison Armstrong:
...travel time, benefits.
>> Lisa Garr: Yeah.
>> Alison Armstrong: It
is totally different;
where should we go, from
where do I want to go.
>> Lisa Garr: Do you ever
do where do you want to go
on vacation and I was
thinking about [laughter].
>> Alison Armstrong:
Well that's what happens.
We say where do you
want to go on vacation?
And before he can answer we go,
where should we go on vacation?
And before we can
answer he says,
"Should we go to
Hawaii or Spain?"
And then he realizes he
didn't really get to vote.
You already [laughter] decided.
>> Lisa Garr: It's just
this is so refreshing
because sometimes I think
oh -- my husband says,
"Well why did you ask me
if you already know
the answer [laughter]?"
>> Alison Armstrong: Yes.
Yes.
>> Lisa Garr: Yes,
so it's normal.
>> Alison Armstrong:
You're completely normal.
>> Lisa Garr: He's
completely normal.
>> Alison Armstrong: His
reactions are completely normal.
We have opposite ways of
speaking and listening,
and because we don't understand
them we end up like this
and we end up crushed
and hurt and divorced.
And all you have to do is
if you understand you
can just like shift.
You just shift a little and
then you can have partnership.
Like okay, so he knows -- if
can know that you're going
to answer off the top of
your head with no commitment
and he may want to
check in tomorrow
to see what's your
answer today [laughter].
>> Lisa Garr: Yes.
>> Alison Armstrong: And you
know he's really going to think
about it you can either wait for
him to think about it and say,
"I want to give you a
question for you to think about
and let me know when you
have an answer [laughter]."
>> Lisa Garr: This is
so enormously helpful.
Remember at the beginning of
the show I said if you want
to solve the communication
issues between men
and women Alison Armstrong
has so much more information.
We're going to have her back
again but this has just been
so enormously helpful for me.
I hope [laughter] it
has for you, as well.
If you want to watch a replay
or share this interview
with your friends
go to GiamTV.com.
There's a lot more though
provoking interviews
and inspirational films
as well on GaiamTV.
So go to GiamTV.com today.
And until next time I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]